<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Chapter One: The Chaos</title>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt"/>
</head>
<body>
  <div id="c1">
    <h1>Chapter One</h1>
    <h2>The Chaos</h2>
    <p>Darkness was all I perceived at first: empty, cold, and alone. Expanse extending within expanse and endlessness extending within endlessness. Nothingness was not as I had imagined it, as something to be witnessed; it was nothing, if that were possible. I pained to find its end and cried out in a void which swallowed my sound and hid it in its shroud. I gasped at the silence, drawing in a crushing realization of sorrow, for I was without, with no one to hear, nothing to consider, and alone.</p>
    <p>Then, either for fear or for flight I found myself stepping forward. Beneath my feet I discovered there was some surface to walk upon. Relieved to find a method of escape I began to move ever more quickly with each step. Sounds of voices echoed from distant places, calling from the darkness, saying words I could not comprehend. The air was crisp, dry and thin. It seemed to produce a great thirst in me as I walked on and on.</p>
    <p>Whereas, at first, all I could distinguish was darkness, soon my eyes adjusted. I perceived in the distance small glimmers of light that seemed to flicker and move. In fact, as I focused more clearly on one directly ahead of me I noticed it was moving closer and closer to me. I stopped my walk and became at once afraid of what may be causing this light to approach.</p>
    <p>Soon I discovered that it was not a light, but a flame which came from a lamp held by some person approaching. I stood perfectly still hoping that they would not see me in the darkness but would pass me by. I would have preferred the naiveté of the darkness to this mystery. Instead, they came upon me with great speed, until they were suddenly before me.</p>
    <p>&ldquo;Come with me, Traveler,&rdquo; said the voice of a young child.</p>
    <p>I had not expected to hear a child&rsquo;s voice. This was a place of darkness. It seemed unusual, even unsafe for such a young person. The child was clothed in a robe which seemed a radiant white against the light of the flame. But as it came closer I discovered that its face was of no particular beauty, but instead seemed scarred. Unsure of the reality of this apparition I reached out and felt before me to test its reality.</p>
    <p>&ldquo;Take my hand,&rdquo; spoke the child as it reached out toward me.</p>
    <p>The cold fingers grasped my hand tightly. My skin prickled with fear. I tore my hand away and jumped back, shouting in a trembling voice, &ldquo;Who... What are you?!&rdquo;</p>
    <p>&ldquo;I am a traveler like yourself. I offer you understanding, but you must come with me. Do not linger here or you will become like the voices you hear in the distance. I have come for them too, but they have not followed. Will you come?&rdquo;</p>
    <p>&ldquo;Who are you and why are you in this place? If I follow you where will we go?&rdquo; I asked.</p>
    <p>&ldquo;It is not yet time for you to ask these questions, but I will lead you to a place where darkness cannot hide. There you will ask the questions you desire, but for now you must trust. Yes. Do not trust simply because I am here, or because I hold this meager light, but because I offer you this opportunity. Come now, you must be silent and attentive to my lead or I will lose you in this void.&rdquo;</p>
    <p>Heedfully I answered, &ldquo;Then I will follow you - I want to be free of this place and I am curious to see where you will take me.&rdquo;</p>
    <p>So I reached out and took the cold hand. The young child began to lead me on through the darkness, stating, &ldquo;Be mindful of your step, fellow traveler, for there are many sharp and treacherous things in this place.&rdquo; We hastened stopping only briefly from time to time so the child could look upon a parchment of some sort; then we would quicken our pace again.</p>
    <p>As before, I began to become quite thirsty from the dry air. I asked the child, &ldquo;Please. Do you have even a small amount of water? Our walking and this air have made me quite thirsty.&rdquo;</p>
    <p>The child reached from within its robe and revealed a flask which shimmered a brilliant red against the lamp&rsquo;s flame. &ldquo;Drink this Traveler, it will quench your thirst for now. But soon you will journey to a place where you will gather your own.&rdquo;</p>
    <p>I took the flask from the child and placed it to my lips to drink. I was surprised to find the contents to be warm in this cold place, tasting sweet as nectar, quenching my thirst with only a small sip. I gave the flask back to the child who hid it away and quickly led us on.</p>
    <p>As we continued I began to distinguish a brighter light off in the distance, though it seemed clouded in the darkness. It was originating from a building. The brilliance emanating from it seemed to reach out to me. I felt as if it was calling me, drawing me to it.</p>
    <p>To my greatest relief we came quickly upon it.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>