<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Chapter Three: The Room of Preparation</title>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt"/>
</head>
<body>
  <div id="c3">
    <h1>Chapter Three</h1>
    <h2>The Room of Preparation</h2>
    <p>As I entered into darkness, the large door from whence came all light and my every knowledge, shut fiercely and tightly behind me. Again, as with the void before, I was overcome with a feeling of darkness. It was more than the absence of light: I had no bearing. The endlessness of this place seemed to be without completion. There were no walls, no distance, no time, only darkness. Even the sounds of my own breath seemed to echo past the long halls of great cathedrals. All at once, I began to fear and mourn all that I had held familiar.</p>
    <p>&ldquo;Do not fear your loss,&rdquo; came a voice, whether from a place distant, or near, I could not tell. &ldquo;You are safe here, pilgrim. I am a traveler who has been tasked to oversee your journey. My name is Deacon.&rdquo;</p>
    <p>I inquired, &ldquo;Is this not one building? From where shall I come, and to where shall I go?&rdquo;</p>
    <p>He spoke again, &ldquo;Do not be led astray. Not all journeys lay along paths of stone. You are destined for greater and more noble travels. Kings and their fortunes have longed for lesser ways, but you shall travel further, you shall gather riches untold, yours will be destinations reached by mortal few. And once you have traveled,  no wage will meet your worth. Though you are of low estate now, soon you will possess what no riches may afford. All persons, foolish as they are, will wonder at your wisdom, though this path requires only a heart of humility. But that is a cost which too few will measure.&rdquo;</p>
    <p>He paused, then continued, &ldquo;You are right to ask from where you come and to where you go. This is a place of preparation, and, lest a person consider their beginnings, they will never enter into this dwelling, nor the path to which you will wander. You will meet those who did not prepare as you will. They did not empty themselves of that which clouds their perception. They have lost their way. They aimlessly wander back and forth in this lodging, looking for wanderers to join them in their loss and loneliness. They are those who have neglected their journey and have dismissed the words of the great thrones. Consider your path and do not falter.&rdquo;</p>
    <p>Feeling a hand upon my shoulder, he continued, &ldquo;As to where you are going, it is along the path of knowledge and understanding. You will behold four great thrones upon which are seated four apparitions of truth. You will meet Revelation&rsquo;s Art, Judgment&rsquo;s Scale, Mercy&rsquo;s Sorrow, and Virtue&rsquo;s Quandary. These are our most trusted fellows, the pillars of our plan. You must hear their words and glean what you can from them. Learn, ask, and test them. They will withhold no understanding from you, but will speak as they have been commanded. Come now, let us set aside our conversation, and prepare you for your journey&rdquo;</p>
    <p>Feeling a bit more comforted, I inquired, &ldquo;What is it I should do?&rdquo;</p>
    <p>As the hand was lifted from my shoulder, he said, &ldquo;It is time now, pilgrim. Rid yourself of all your belongings. They are of no use here. They will only burden your journey.&rdquo;</p>
    <p>&ldquo;But what will I wear?&rdquo; I asked.</p>
    <p>He continued, &ldquo;Reach before you and find a tunic for your covering. It is a simple cloth, having no color and no image upon its fabric. You will enter into this journey with a simple purpose. This covering is given to you for your journey. It is to remind you that even the means to your basic covering are not of your own accord, but are given freely to you. Come now. Clothe yourself.&rdquo;</p>
    <p>So I removed of all that I had brought with me. Then I reached forward and found before me a single cloth of a length to cover my whole self from neck to ankle.</p>
    <p>&ldquo;Deacon, I have found this floor to be coarse and without comfort. May I have something to cover my feet?&rdquo;</p>
    <p>He retorted, &ldquo;You must not. This path must be known to you, and, coarse as it is, you must continue to walk it. Kneel so that I may place this blindfold upon you.&rdquo;</p>
    <p>Plaintively I asked, &ldquo;But, Deacon, why do I need to be blinded?&rdquo;</p>
    <p>He answered, &ldquo;You must enter into this dwelling with no sight, save that which will be given to you. It is his delight to give sight only to the blind. Once you have asked, you will be given. For those who seek shall find.&rdquo;</p>
    <p>I knelt and was blindfolded. Then, upon standing, the Deacon took my arm and led me for what seemed far too great a distance for the building&rsquo;s outward appearance. We paused for a moment. I heard a certain number of distinct knocks, and then the sound of a great door opening. We continued our pace and then, all at once, we stopped.</p>
    <p>A great voice called, &ldquo;Ask, and you will receive; seek, and you shall find; knock, and the door will be opened.&rdquo;</p>
    <p>Only silenced seemed to follow and I wondered if it was I who was supposed to speak. Hesitantly I replied, &ldquo;Then I ask for sight, that I might see where I have been led, and to what end I have come.&rdquo;</p>    
  </div>
</body>
</html>