<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Chapter Four: Revelation&rsquo;s Art</title>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt"/>
</head>
<body>
  <div id="c4">
    <h1>Chapter Four</h1>
    <h2>Revelation&rsquo;s Art</h2>
    <p>With a great clap, which echoed like thunder throughout unknown caverns, my blindfold was removed. My eyes pained with the brilliance of light that poured over me. I had never known such a sight. The overwhelming intensity of it so overtook me that I worried I might not see anything at all, perhaps ever again.</p>
     <p>Soon, to my relief, my eyes seemed to adjust. I discerned that I was in a great and vast chamber, whose ceiling appeared to reach upward into heaven itself, far too distant than it could have appeared from the outside. Before me sat four great thrones, one on each wall of the chamber. Before them, in the center of the room, rested a great white altar, upon which a large book was laid. The brilliant light that filled the room came flooding from the book. Great streams of light flowed from the book to the thrones. Each throne became illuminated by it, as if they drew their light from it. From the center of the book shone an even more brilliant column of light, which extended far into the heavens, to a distance beyond my ability to see.</p>
     <p>The Deacon commanded me to look down upon my feet and not to look up until I was told. He then took my arm and led me in quite an odd and meticulous fashion. We moved forward, then sharply at right angles till we came directly before the first great throne. The Deacon took the staff from under his arm and rapped it on the floor in front of the throne a certain number of distinct times.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Who comes here?&rdquo; boomed a deep and foreboding voice.</p>
     <p>The Deacon answered him, saying, &ldquo;It is a traveler from without who desires sight.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Has he rid himself of all his possessions? Has he been prepared?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;He has rid himself and he has been prepared?&rdquo; affirmed the Deacon.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Then let him ask as he will. I will hold no reserve, but will give as I have received. Look upon me, Traveler, and tell me what you behold.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>I looked up and saw the first great throne and the one who sat upon it.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;I see you, a man of old and tired stature, whose white hair and long beard give evidence to the many years in your possession. Your throne is of fine and meticulous masonry, scaled in what seems to be perfect dimension, made of the finest marble I have ever seen. Upon its base are engraved the words, &lsquo;HE IS NOT SILENT.&rsquo; In your left hand you hold a brush with which you appear to be painting a beautiful landscape upon a great canvas. In your right hand you hold a pen with which you appear to be writing in a book. You are draped with what appears to be a cloth fit for the grave. Your eyes do not look upon either the painting, or the writing, but into the light that comes from the book which is laid upon the altar of this room. Neither have you diverted your sight even to gaze upon me.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>He replied, &ldquo;You are most observant. This will serve you well. Ask as you will, for I will not reserve any one thing that I possess. He has commanded me to do so, and I must obey him. But unless a person ask, they will never know; and unless they ask the right question, they will never possess wisdom.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Then I will ask only as I can, for who knows what question is correct until they have tested its answer and found it to be of use. Who are you?&rdquo; I asked.</p>
     <p>With deliberate timing he spoke, saying, &ldquo;I am Revelation.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;What is your purpose?&rdquo; I inquired.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;I have only one purpose, to reveal that which he commands of me and nothing else.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>I questioned further, &ldquo;What do you paint with your left hand?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Motioning his head slightly to the left he stated, &ldquo;Come closer, and behold what I paint.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>I carefully approached the painting and gazed upon the most beautiful landscape I had ever seen. A vast expanse of land spread across the canvas, accenting spectacular vistas of forests and fields. As I gazed deeper into the painting I began to notice that there appeared to be wind blowing in the trees. Yes! The painting moved and was alive. It was as if I were not gazing at a painting at all, but at an actual landscape.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;It is real and alive!&rdquo; I gasped.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;It is creation. Behold its beauty, its complexity. Is it not masterful?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;It is beyond my description,&rdquo; I breathed.</p>
     <p>I felt a deep emotion of adoration come over me. I was gazing upon such a wonder of mastery. &ldquo;Exquisite! But why do you show me this painting?&rdquo; I asked.</p>
     <p>Came his reply, &ldquo;This is the creator&rsquo;s art and all people see his painting. It is his masterpiece, the canvas of his reflection, his image, his character, and his being. Upon its constructs and forms are written the laws by which all persons fashion their governance and innovation.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Revelation continued, &ldquo;It is my testament, Traveler. He has commanded me to share it with you. See and understand. Think upon its structure and its form. Can you name its equal?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>I pondered. &ldquo;I cannot, for there is no more masterful work than this that I have ever seen. I could not wager that any person might find or create its equal.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Reflecting on the painting, I questioned, &ldquo;Revelation, you have claimed that this mastery of creation and existence is by the hand of a creator. Might I ask how a person should know that it was in fact a creator who set them to work and order? People are certainly able to observe nature, to be astonished even at themselves as existing. Certainly they must be astounded at their own physical complexity. But, when considering their beginnings, couldn&rsquo;t they consider that there may not have been a creator at all?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Traveler, if indeed you were to consider humanity as rational surely they would have to consider that there are only two possibilities when they look at the reality of their existence."</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Which two possibilities are those?&rdquo; I inquired.</p>
     <p>Revelation replied, pausing with deliberate emphasis, &ldquo;That either existence had a beginning point and so something came from nothing, or that existence is without a beginning and so something is eternal.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;I don't suppose it is reasonable to conclude that something came from nothing.&rdquo; I reflected.</p>
     <p>He continued, &ldquo;Humanity is bound by the reality of what they observe and even what they can reason. They cannot escape the truth of it. And so they cannot escape this problem: that they are held captive to that which is beyond their reason and proofs, that there exists a necessary uncertainty, the unobservable and the unexplained. They are bound to the problem of the eternity of existence.&rdquo; He raised his head in a scoffing fashion, &ldquo;It is utter vanity then that humans would presume there has been no greater being in all of eternity, in all of existence than themselves.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;I suppose it is reasonable to consider that there is a being who has been around for longer than ourselves, and perhaps for so long as to be considered eternal from our limited point of view. Surely one who has been around for such length must possess greater knowledge and abilities than we,&rdquo; I surmised.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Yes, Traveler. And it is the eternal of existence who has left the imprint of himself, his very being, in his creation,&rdquo; he answered.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Then humanity is able to discover the creator from existence alone? Certainly this cannot be. For some would see the very beginnings and construction of existence to be by the hands of chaos and survival. Still others have fashioned entire constructs and diversions of belief from this order,&rdquo; I pondered.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Creation is incomplete, Traveler. It was not meant for such purposes. There are none who may prove the creator by his creation alone. For how can the creation prove anything except what is in their power to reproduce?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Confused, I asked, &ldquo;Then how can they know what you speak of? It does not seem like we are able to speak to this creator face to face, to prove his existence. He does not walk with us.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Revelation hesitated and spoke in almost a whisper saying, &ldquo;No. He does not walk with you, though he did at one time, before you stole yourselves from him. But that is not mine to disclose.&rdquo; Then looking to his right he spoke saying, &ldquo;It is not necessary to speak with the creator. He has not been silent, but has already spoken, yes, even demonstrated himself to you. Behold my right hand, and what I am writing.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>I walked over to his right hand and witnessed him writing words in a book. Just then I noticed that a few moments after he had written them, the words disappeared.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;I have seen the words you are writing, but they continue to vanish.&rdquo; I stated, confounded.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;The words are those of the creator himself. They are possessed nowhere in creation, but are given from him and evidenced by his unique abilities. These are the frail words of those who have heard, who have seen and who have spoken of his wondrous and unique works. These words are written in the book which is laid upon the altar. I must keep my gaze upon it so I do not forget the words it contains. For just as soon as I write them, the words are being erased. And as soon as humankind is spoken to, they forget. They are a simple being who is easily turned, like a wave of the sea which is tossed about by the wind. Therefore the words of the creator must ever be before them, retold, and revisited, for they are a forgetful creature and there are many who would offer their own words.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Mystified, I rebutted, &ldquo;Truly no person should refuse the words of their creator. But I must inquire how a person may judge what you write. There are many who write and many who speak. How can they discern that these words are accurate where others have spoken of their own account?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Your question is of great importance. He has not left you devoid in your quest. Behold the cloth that is draped across my body. It is a grave cloth, is it not?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Yes, I suppose it is,&rdquo; I concurred.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Traveler, how may the creator demonstrate to his creation that it is he who speaks and no other human in creation?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Shyly, I answered, &ldquo;I suppose he must somehow prove it with some act, which no creature but the creator can do. But even if the creator performs such an act, will a rational person accept such a witness from another person? We can only judge the claims of others by what we can justify with evidence.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Indeed. Yet it was evidence that the creator has prepared and given. Do you not see the grave cloth that is draped over me? Has he not demonstrated such an act as no one in creation may perform? Has he not hastened history to pen the account of his own mastery over creation and death? For all must die, but none has ever lived again.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>I scoffed, &ldquo;Resurrection?! It is not a probable event. We do not see it in all of creation. They will surely doubt its possibility.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Revelation quickly spoke, &ldquo;Yes. And rightly so, they are a creature purposed for such doubts. So unfortunate then that humanity might hasten such improbability, and spare no faith in their sole aspiration of chaotic origins. But the same scale of probability is locked tightly away when they consider the possibility of a creator. Understandably so. They know that a creator&rsquo;s presence requires their contemplation. They instead choose not to consider, to their own loss, for their abstaining grieves the creator who longs for them.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Doubtingly, I queried, &ldquo;So then, if the Creator has actually spoken, proven his authority, and provided evidence, who can resist these words?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Do not be presumptuous, Traveler! These are not simple things. To those who are meek of nature, who desire to understand without protest, they are welcome. But to those of a stubborn will and a prudent mind, it is his great pride to welcome their inquiry. For Traveler, Truth finds the greatest of worth in the mind of her sceptic.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>He sighed, looking again to his right. &ldquo;Recall the words that disappear. These words must always be shared, again and again. For they quickly forget. You, Traveler, must share it with them. But first, you must visit the others. They have much to share with you. You must ask all that you can of them, for they will answer.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>He continued, &ldquo;Deacon, give him one of the scrolls I gave you. The creator is not silent and his words must be ever before this traveler. He is now tasked as I am, to write and to reveal. Now, take him to Justice. He has learned how the creator has spoken. Now he must learn the exacting of the creator&rsquo;s scale.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Then the Deacon pulled from beneath his robe a parchment made from what looked like animal skin and commanded me, &ldquo;Take this scroll. It is yours.&rdquo; He then took my arm and instructed me once more to gaze upon the floor. I did as he said, and found myself again walking in the strange pattern of angles that we had traveled before to meet Revelation.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>