<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Mercy&rsquo;s Sorrow</title>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt"/>
</head>
<body>
  <div id="c6">
    <h1>Chapter Six</h1>
    <h2>Mercy&rsquo;s Sorrow</h2>
    <p>As we walked, a sound just off to my side distracted me from my walk. It sounded as if a man were calling out, but too faint to comprehend. I lifted my head to see who shouted.</p>
     <p>The Deacon cried out, &ldquo;Do not look up, Traveler! You must not!&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Puzzled, I responded, &ldquo;But Deacon, who calls so loud? Why can I not look upon him?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Pulling me close, he torted, &ldquo;Did I not warn you of those who wandered in this chamber? It is a traveler who has lost his way.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Deacon, surely they can come with me on my journey,&rdquo; I implored.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;No,&rdquo; he answered back, &ldquo;This journey is yours and you must complete it. The moment that you prematurely end your journey, you will be truly lost. You must first meet the other thrones. Then you will be able to assist him and the others. They are distracted, and have cut short their journey. If you listen to them in your naive state you will surely be led astray.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Belligerently he tested me stating, &ldquo;Choose now, Traveler. Will you follow my lead?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>I was weary to walk, burdened by the knowledge I had gained. Curiosity, it would seem, had greeted me with no fine courtesy. No. Apathy, for the first time, held a sort of attraction and the fruit of it tempted me as it never had before. Were it not for the burden in my heart to ask of the remaining thrones I would have turned to meet the wandering traveler.</p>
     <p>Exhausted, but anxious to continue, I replied, &ldquo;I will follow, Deacon.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>With a short pause, his voice softening to a concern, &ldquo;Then humble yourself, Traveler, and attend to my lead. I will guide you in a right path, for it is my duty to serve his will, and he desires for you to learn.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>We then continued along our path until we finally reached the next great throne. Again, the Deacon took the staff from under his arm and rapped it purposefully on the floor a certain number of distinct times.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Who comes here?&rdquo; came a voice which sounded remarkably similar to the voice of Justice.</p>
     <p>The Deacon answered, &ldquo;It is a traveler who desires to learn of you.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Has he exacted Justice&rsquo;s Scale?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>The Deacon again spoke, &ldquo;He has asked, and he has received, and he seeks to ask again.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Then let him ask as he will, for I will hold no reserve but will give as I have received. Look upon me, Traveler, and tell me what you gather.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>So I looked up and beheld the third great throne and the one who sat upon it.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;I am astonished to see that you appear to be the mirror-image, in beauty and likeness, of Justice. In fact, the only distinction I see is that your right eye bears a ruby which shines red. You also wear a bandage which covers the place where your eye once laid. You are weeping. Even now, your robe has become soaked from your tears. Your right hand appears to be reaching, opened and extended in front of you. Your left hand appears to be winding back the hands of a large clock. Your throne is made of the finest ruby and is pure in its luster. Upon its base are written the words, &ldquo;SLAIN FROM THE FOUNDATIONS.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Ask as you will, Traveler.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>I began, &ldquo;Surely, you are Mercy. May I ask what your purpose is?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;I am the voice of he who is merciful. The worthless shall find their reward by my hand, for the creator has commanded me to lavish his fortune upon the disdainful and meek.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Justice has told me of the eye which has been taken from you. Indeed, it is a terrible cost. Is this why you are weeping?&rdquo; I gently asked.</p>
     <p>She corrected me, &ldquo;I do not weep for what has been taken from me. Freely and with much planning did the creator purpose his own suffering, and by his hand he has plucked out his own eye to bear it upon the Scale of Right. From the foundations of the earth he has measured the cost for his creature. It was the cost of their free choice, of their ability to love and understand his love. That was his desire. He wished to possess a creature who might know of his uniqueness, his character: that he is truly merciful.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Mercy, I would think the creator would be angered at the consequence of man&rsquo;s choice.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Came the quick retort, &ldquo;Do you presume the creator to be ignorant of the creature he himself created? You presume that man&rsquo;s disobedience was a surprise to the creator. Had the creator been unwilling to sacrifice his very own life for his creature, he would never have fashioned creation. It was a cost he was willing to bear.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>I was perplexed, &ldquo;But if he knew man would offend him, why would he bother creating him in the first place?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;It is mysterious, is it not? Consider a being as great as the creator who would desire to fashion a creature by whose hands he would suffer. But such is his uniqueness, for we know none other like him. Such is the quality of love and communion he desires with his creature, that he would be so pained.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;If you do not weep for what has been taken from you, then why do you weep?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;I weep for creation, for its pain, for their suffering,&rdquo; she remorsed.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Then, Mercy, why would the creator, if he does so love his creation, allow it to continue in its destructive state?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Do you see my left hand?&rdquo; she replied.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Yes. Before the clock reaches high-twelve you continue to move back the hands.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>She continued, &ldquo;It is the clock of time, and it will chime high-twelve most loudly. Yet, for now I must resist it for the creator longs for many to meet his mercy. Every minute measures yet another opportunity for his creature to be reconciled. He desires that they might be reconciled and that I might write them in his book.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;But why would the creator wait? Surely he can end this all; and, by doing so, end man&rsquo;s suffering and his own.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Have you not understood by now, Traveler? The creator desires man&rsquo;s free choice of love, not man&rsquo;s blind obligation. Yet the creator is bound by his own conditions and character. He will not offend himself. Nor will he offend his creature by violating his ability to choose. And so his creature is free to choose whether to love or to hate, to do what is right or to do what is wrong, to extend mercy or to require sacrifice. But he has planned creation&rsquo;s end. When creation has found its purposed end I will resist time no more.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>She reached her outstretched hand toward me saying, &ldquo;Behold my outreached hand. The creator knows his creature and has caused me to reach to whom I can, to gather from creation all whom he has rescued. With my right hand I reach to them. To all I offer my welcoming hand. Those who freely evidence their choice, are written in his book.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Dismayed at the direness of Mercy's plight I remorsed, &ldquo;It is so very tragic, and it seems so very very complicated. I wish it were easier somehow.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Traveler, do you presume to possess the ability to perceive the very mind of the creator? Do you possess the knowledge of creation such that the very outcome of every consequence is known to you?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;No. Certainly not,&rdquo; I firmly replied.</p>
     <p>She questioned again, &ldquo;And the creator who established your existence? Do you suppose he does not possess the knowledge of every consequence of his creation? His knowledge is inescapable to him. What do you think, that he fashioned this creation solely on the whim of chance?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;No, Mercy. That is not reasonable. Even I in my simplicity can predict the outcome of simple situations,&rdquo; I offered.</p>
     <p>Leaning her head down toward me she added, &ldquo;Then why would you presume that he would not know the consequence of his creation; that he would not be cognizant of its choice, its desire? It was his choice to fashion creation knowing its full consequence and the horrid price he himself would pay. What lowly creature can know how the creator acts in creation? Those whom he rescues must then choose to follow him of their own free will and accord. What man possesses the mind of the creator? Humanity must only know that it is they themselves who choose by their actions.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Turning to the Deacon she summoned him, &ldquo;Come. Deacon give the traveler a flask, that he might take up my tears and drink of their fill. For the creator longs that you taste of his heart and know of his suffering for you.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>She finished, &ldquo;Then, Deacon, you will take the Traveler to the next of the creator&rsquo;s persons. He has learned of the creator&rsquo;s pain, and now must understand Virtue&rsquo;s quandary.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>The Deacon handed me a flask made of fine ruby and commanded me to gather into it the tears which fell from Mercy&rsquo;s cheek. So I stepped forward and filled my flask. I then looked down upon my path and prepared for yet another journey to the next great throne. I followed the Deacon as he again led me, tired for all I had learned, toward Virtue&rsquo;s throne.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>