<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Virtue&rsquo;s Quandary</title>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt"/>
</head>
<body>
  <div id="c7">
    <h1>Chapter Seven</h1>
    <h2>Virtue&rsquo;s Quandary</h2>
    <p>Nothing had prepared me for the challenge of my journey. As we continued on our path to the next great throne, I began to become overwhelmed. My mind swam in a sea of unknown consequences, realities and understandings.</p>
     <p>Hesitant to ask, I spoke to the Deacon.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Deacon. I know that we are bound to our task and I do not wish to cause you annoyance. I am concerned, however, that I have become quite overwhelmed. I fear that my further inquiry will be a vain attempt. I do not possess any great ability for learning. Rather, I am a man of a most meager mind. I have asked and received much more than I supposed I would. The journey has caused me great exhaustion. Even now, my feet have become cut, blistered, and suffer great pain.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>I paused for a couple of seconds and implored, &ldquo;Please, I do not mean to complain. I am only concerned that I will not be able to finish this journey.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>The Deacon placed his hand upon my shoulder and spoke to me in an empathetic tone. &ldquo;Your concern is not unfamiliar. Those who have traveled before you have suffered the same as you. But do not be discouraged. The creator who fashioned this great chamber, and who planned your journey knows your cost. He has even walked in creation&rsquo;s humility. He knows what you bear, and has purposed you to measure the cost of your learning. What traveler values his destination if he arrives upon it by ease? You will favor what you have gained; but, for now, you must endure without yielding.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>He reassured me, &ldquo;Come, we have even now arrived at the last great throne.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Again, the Deacon took the staff from under his arm, and rapped purposefully on the floor a certain number of distinct times.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Who comes here?&rdquo; spoke the voice of a child.</p>
     <p>The Deacon answered, &ldquo;It is a traveler who desires to learn of you.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Has he understood Mercy&rsquo;s Sorrow?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;He has asked and he has received and he seeks to ask again,&rdquo; the Deacon replied.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Then let him ask as he will, for I will hold no reserve but will give as I have received. Look upon me, Traveler, and tell me what you perceive.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>So I looked up and beheld the fourth great throne and the one who sat upon it.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;I behold what appears to be a child: the very appearance of the one who led me from the chaos. You are sitting upon a throne which is of quite a simple construction. It is made of wood, and upon its base is carved, &ldquo;ALREADY AND NOT YET.&rdquo; You are clothed in a robe of the finest white material, surely a flawless cloth. It is brilliant in its purity. I am hesitant to acknowledge that your flesh appears scarred and haggard. Your face is composed in such a way that it seems to be decayed, and is quite gruesome to gaze upon. In your right hand you hold what appears to be an abacus, an instrument for mathematics. In your left hand you hold a lamp, which gives off a brilliant light.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Ask and understand, Traveler,&rdquo; spoke the child.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Please, are you Virtue?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;I am,&rdquo; he replied with a sigh of tired expression.</p>
     <p>Struck with curiosity I asked, &ldquo;What is your purpose?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>The child began, &ldquo;The creator has called me to attend to those he has reconciled. They are his children, and a peculiar people.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Is that the robe of Justice you wear?&rdquo; I inquired.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Yes. It is the royal garment of the creator. From a single perfect lamb the fleece was taken, spun and woven. And so he has reconciled his chosen by Mercy&rsquo;s cost. How he has clothed them with perfection! They are now without account, and are his royal family, heirs to all that he possesses, a wealth secured in the vaults of his eternal treasury,&rdquo; the child affirmed.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Virtue, I am hesitant to bring attention to this, but I am greatly distressed by the appearance of your face. You seem to be in a physical state of decay which is offensive to even look upon,&rdquo; I timidly said.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;It is the very condition of the reconciled, Traveler. They are most gruesome in their current state, full of every licentious and malicious potential. They are shackled to its shame, a pain for perseverance&rsquo;s pleasure.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;But, Virtue, surely the reconciled are of a different quality than those who have not chosen to listen to these great thrones?&rdquo; I asked, revolted.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;They are not!&rdquo; The child rejoined. &ldquo;You will find those who wander in these chambers who have neglected the truth of it. For though the debtors have been written in the Book of Reconciliation, they are not, as of yet perfected.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Leaning forward, Virtue stated with intended measure, &ldquo;Take note of this irony, Traveler. Those who have been already reconciled and given the robe of royalty are possessed still by the very essence and tendencies of creation&rsquo;s ill consequence. They have not yet escaped the consequence of creation&rsquo;s disobedience.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Sitting back with an air of relief, he continued, &ldquo;When Mercy resists time no more they will truly die to creation&rsquo;s condition. At that time they will be given a new body and a new creation, without ill. The reconciled do not take rest in this life. Their hope must remain in the life to come, where they will be freed from all that distracts them.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Then the reconciled suffer the same as those who care nothing for Revelation, nor Justice, nor Mercy?&rdquo; I asked, a bit disheartened.</p>
     <p>Virtue confirmed, &ldquo;Yes. They participate in the same creation as all others. Now, behold the abacus in my right hand.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>I gazed upon it. &ldquo;Yes. It is an instrument for calculation.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;It is the Abacus of Consequence, for every action bears its effect. A person reaps as they sow; what is done by you will be done to you. Even the reconciled are not free from this law. All creation is bound by it; to its reason and its exactness.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Please, Virtue, I do not understand,&rdquo; I stammered.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Traveler, observe the abacus.&rdquo; Virtue tilted the abacus so that the beads fell to one side. &ldquo;Does not the consequence of addition create an added gain?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Yes, of course,&rdquo; I agreed, though still perplexed.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;So the consequence of every creature, reconciled or not, may benefit from another&rsquo;s good and honorable practice. There is no distinction. They are all his creatures, and are bound by the laws of his universe. Know then, that the creator knows their reward.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Then, the reconciled will have earthly reward for their good deeds,&rdquo; I surmised.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;To what good is earthly reward? Look upon my face! Is it a benefit to live in such cruel condition? No! For those who do good, the treasures of heaven are patiently laid up. They are not kept here, where man and animals may consume them. They are stored in vaults which are sealed for the great day when all will be fulfilled. Then they will enjoy them in communion with their creator. Still, the labour of good yields the fruit of a content life, though contentness and coin may never meet.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Tilting the abacus to the opposite side, the beads made a cracking noise as they aligned on the other end of their string. He continued, &ldquo;Likewise, Traveler, in the same way, does not the consequence of subtraction create further lack?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Yes. It is simple math,&rdquo; I answered.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;So will the reconciled contribute to the consequence of harm and destruction. This is the reality of their irony. These rules are given to all. In the same way, those he has reconciled receive the ill consequence and choice of all creation. They are pained by those who choose to harm, just as all creation may be pained by the ability for the reconciled to harm.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Then the reconciled are left with no assistance even though they among all creation will surely find themselves as obscure?&rdquo; I asked, despondently.</p>
     <p>Virtue paused, asking, &ldquo;Do you see the lamp in my left hand?&rdquo; raising the lamp high above me.</p>
     <p>&ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; I replied, shielding its brightness from my eyes.</p>
     <p>The child clarified, &ldquo;It is the purpose of the reconciled. They are keepers of the creator&rsquo;s flame. The creator has not left them alone, but has even himself comforted them. Yes! How marvelous that he might choose to inhabit the reconciled, even in their consequenced and ill state; his presence, a down payment for his not yet realized promise.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Holding the lamp now toward me, &ldquo;Behold how the flame exposes its light. It is effortless, is it not?&rdquo;</p>
     <p>I nodded, &ldquo;Virtue, the light which emits from it is brilliant, even challenging to my eyes,&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Pulling the lamp back to himself he followed, &ldquo;Yes. It is the consequence of this lamp. So ignorance finds itself challenged by its purpose, even displaced. What lamp, which is truly useful, finds obscurity to be familiar. No, a lamp finds itself unable to be anything but a creator of vision, and an intruder to the hazards of darkness&rsquo; disregard. The consequence of its flame even gives clarity and benefit to the insight and knowledge of all around it. For those who lack discernment are no longer able to stumble and harm in ignorance. They are called into account, just as you are now called into account.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>Virtue leaned his head toward me. &ldquo;Even so, Traveler, the light of this chamber and these four great thrones have now left you without excuse. Come, Deacon, give to him his lamp and have him light it from my own. He is now without excuse, and has been given great things. This lamp will guide his path and lead him through the chaos, to where he must return. In so doing, others will perceive the fortitudes of these revelations, and hopelessness will be overcome.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>The Deacon reached from under his robe and pulled out a small lamp, which was similar to the young child&rsquo;s who had led me from the darkness. He then commanded me to step forward and light it from Virtue&rsquo;s own lamp. I stepped forward and gathered the flame unto my own.</p>
     <p>Virtue entreated, &ldquo;Traveler, tend now to the Deacon&rsquo;s arm and to his lead. You have tested what is necessary for your further journey, and now you must return to the void from whence you came. There are others who must come to know the light you have seen, so go. But be mindful of those who dwell within these walls, those who have not heeded the words of our thrones. You have tested our truths, but do not think yourself unable to be misguided. The wanderers&rsquo; words are hollow, and they seek to find others to comfort them. Understand, it is not your purpose to remain within these walls, it is your purpose to go. Go, knowing your reconciliation is free. So you must go and freely give, mercifully. For the creator is merciful and he desires mercy, not sacrifice.&rdquo;</p>
     <p>The Deacon then took my arm, turning me around to face the chamber. As I began to direct my eyes yet again to my path he spoke to me saying, &ldquo;Traveler, you must look up now and see this chamber of light, the thrones and the wayfarers herein. You must perceive and understand them. Let us continue along your journey. You have more to see and I must attend to it. Come, let us proceed.&rdquo;</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>